
# Documenting Code {#page_DocumentingCode}

Instructions to build locally documentation and push it to repo.


---

## 1. Setting up documentation 

Documentation is built by doxygen in the ./dochtml/html directory. To set it up on you local repo, 
follow these steps AFTER you have cloned the repo
	
	mkdir dochtml
	mkdir dochtml/html
	cd dochtml/html
	git clone https://github.com/<reponame> .
	git checkout gh-pages
	# remove other branch(es)
	git branch -d master
	cd ../..

For initial setup (creating gh-pages branch for the first time)

		
	mkdir dochtml
	mkdir dochtml/html
	# exclude dochtml from repo
	echo "dochtml/" >> .gitignore
	git commit -am "added dochtml to gitignore"
	cd dochtml/html
	git clone https://github.com/<reponame> .
	git checkout -b gh-pages
	# remove other branch(es)
	git branch -d master
	# remove files to start from clean state. Change file list as needed
	git rm -r src doc config configure.ac LICENSE Makefile.am 
	cd ../..


--- 



## 2. Updating documentation 

To update documentation locally:

	doxygen

To push the changes to the git webpage:

	cd dochtml/html
	git commit -am 'updated doc'
	git push



---


## 3. Github documentation

File README.md is the front page for documentation on the github site. It includes a link to `./index.md` which is the top menu for the documentation, from which all documentation should be accessible.


---


## 4. Doxygen input files

Documentation is generated by doxygen from multiple sources:

- pages.dox top-level menu, which is the main page for doxygen-generated documentation. Contains entries such as `@subpage page_pagename` or `@ref page_pagename` that point to corresponding `{#page_installation}` tags in any of the `doc/xxx.md` files.
- markdown files (<filename>.md) in doc/ directories
- documentation contained in source code (.c and .h files)


---



## 5. Other documentation

Additional documentation that is not meant to be processed by doxygen (but can be linked from it) should be placed in directories named docdir. This can consist of pdf files, markdown file, or any other format.


## Summary table


|  File / Directory              | Github | Doxygen     |  Content                                  |
|--------------------------------|--------|-------------|-------------------------------------------|
| README.md                      |  X     |             | top level overview (application specific) |
| index.md                       |  X     |             | Main help index                           |
| pages.dox                      |        |   X         | top doxygen menu (application specific)   |
| ./doc/*.md                     |        |   X         | Generic documentation files               |
| ./docapp/*.md                  |        |   X         | Application specific docs                 |
| ./src/doc/*.md                 |        |   X         | Generic documentation files               |
| ./src/docdir/*.md              |        |             | non-doxygen documentation                 |
| ./src/<modulename>/doc/*.md    |        |   X         | Module documentation files                |
| ./src/<modulename>/docdir/*.md |        |             | Extended application documentation        |

Additional details:

- README.md: file appears on github's front page, and contains an overview description of the software package.
- index.md: top menu for github documentation page. Contains links to help pages in other directories. Standard links include:
	- installation guide, usually in ./doc/ directory
	- user's guide, usually in ./src/<modulename>/doc and ./src/<modulename>/docdir directories
	- programmer's guide generated by doxygen: ./html/index.html




